# Functions and Lambda 

## Extension Function
- Kotlin provides an ability to extend a class with new functionality without having to inherit from the class or use design patterns such as Decorator. This is done via special declarations called extensions.
- For example, you can write new functions for a class from a third-party library that you can't modify. Such functions are available for calling in the usual way as if they were methods of the original class.
```
    fun MutableList<Int>.swap(index1: Int, index2: Int) {
        val tmp = this[index1] // 'this' corresponds to the list
        this[index1] = this[index2]
        this[index2] = tmp
    }

    val list = mutableListOf(1, 2, 3)
    list.swap(0, 2) // 'this' inside 'swap()' will hold the value of 'list'
```
## How extension functions works internally
- "Extension functions are resolved statically", i.e. they are normal static methods bearing no connection with the class they are extending, other than taking an instance of this class as a parameters. http://confluence.jetbrains.com/display/Kotlin/Extension 389+functions

- In kotlin function is defined using **fun** keyword.
```
    fun displayName(){
        print("spm.kotlin.world.basic.Hello Kotlin")
    }
```  
- Function with return type
```
    fun getName() : String ?{
        return "Sibaprasad"
    }
``` 
- We can convert the above function to single expression function

```
    fun getName() = "Sibaprasad"
```

- In this case compiler understands that this is a single expression function, and return type will be the type of the datatype that returns
## Named Argument Function
- When calling a function, you can name one or more of its arguments. This may be helpful when a function has a large number of arguments, and it's difficult to associate a value with an argument, especially if it's a boolean or null value.

```
    fun reformat(
        str: String,
        normalizeCase: Boolean = true,
        upperCaseFirstLetter: Boolean = true,
        divideByCamelHumps: Boolean = false,
        wordSeparator: Char = ' ',
    ) {
    /*...*/
    }
    While calling the function

    reformat(
        'String!',
        false,
        upperCaseFirstLetter = false,
        divideByCamelHumps = true,
        '_'
    )
```

## Infix FUnction
- Its a member function or extension function
- It contain only one parameter
- It will have prefix infix
- All infix function are extension function but all extension function are not infix function.

```
    // extension function
    fun Int.greaterValue(other:Int):Int{
        if(this > other){
            return this
        }
        else
            return other
    }
    val x = 10
    val y = 20
    val greaterValue = x.greaterValue(y)
```

- The above example is extension function, for this we need to pas the parameter to the function
- Lets convert the above method to infix function. And see what are the benifits of infix function

```
    // extension function
    infix fun Int.greaterValue(other:Int):Int{
        if(this > other){
            return this
        }
        else
            return other
    }
    val x = 10
    val y = 20
    val greaterValue = x greaterValue y
```

- While calling an infix function, you don't need to pass parameters and you can use space instead.

## Lambda expressions and Anonymous function
- A function without name is called anonymous function. 
- For lambda expression we can say that it is anonymous function. 
- For more details Follow **https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/kotlin-lambdas-expressions-and-anonymous-functions/?ref=lbp**

- Syntax

```
    val lambda_name : Data_type = { argument_List -> code_body }
    example
    val sum = {a: Int , b: Int -> a + b}
    val sum:(Int,Int) -> Int = { a, b -> a + b}
```

- A lambda expression is always surrounded by curly braces, argument declarations go inside curly braces and have optional type annotations, the code_body goes after an arrow -> sign. If the inferred return type of the lambda is not Unit, then the last expression inside the lambda body is treated as return value.

### Type inference in lambdas-
- Kotlin’s type inference helps the compiler to evaluate the type of a lambda expression. Below is the lambda expression using which we can compute the sum of two integers.
- val sum = {a: Int , b: Int -> a + b}
- (Int,Int) -> String 

```
    val lambda1: (Int) -> Int = (a -> a * a)
    val lambda2: (String,String) -> String = { a , b -> a + b }
    val lambda3: (Int)-> Unit = {print(Int)}
```

- Lambdas can be used as class extension:

```
    val lambda4 : String.(Int) -> String = { this + it }

    fun main(args: Array<String>) {
        val result = "Geeks".lambda4(50)
        print(result)
    }
    OUTPUT = Geeks50
```

## Anonymous Function
- An anonymous function is very similar to regular function except for the name of the function which is omitted from the declaration. The body of the anonymous function can be either an expression or block.

- Syntax

```
    fun(a: Int, b: Int) : Int = a * b

    or

    fun(a: Int, b: Int): Int {
        val mul = a * b
        return mul
    }
```
## Kotlin Tail Recursion


## Extension Function**
 
- Kotlin extension functions will let us add new functions to existing classes that wouldn´t be able to be modified otherwise. We can, for instance, add a new method to an activity that let us show a toast in a much more simple nomenclature:
```
     fun Activity.toast(message: CharSequence, duration: Int = Toast.LENGTH_SHORT){
        Toast.makeText(this, message, duration) .show()
     }
```
 Explanation : To create a toast message, everytime we need to write the show method at the end of the spm.kotlin.world.function.
 But in the extension spm.kotlin.world.function we just write the spm.kotlin.world.function with extra default parameters like, duration and aded show method at the end
   
 Here it is another interesting example that will let me explain another interesting concept: reified types.  

```
    inline fun <reified T : Activity> Activity.navigate(id: String) {
        val intent = Intent(this, T::class.java)
        intent.putExtra("id", id)
        startActivity(intent)
    }
```
 
Inline functions can use reified types, what means that we can recover the class from a type inside the spm.kotlin.world.function instead of having to pass the class type as an argument.
Inline functions are a bit different from regular functions. Inline functions will be substituted with its code during compilation, instead of really calling to a spm.kotlin.world.function. It will simplify some situations. For instance, if we have a spm.kotlin.world.function as an argument, a regular spm.kotlin.world.function will internally create an object that contains that spm.kotlin.world.function. On the other hand, inline functions will substitute the code of the spm.kotlin.world.function in the place where its called, so it won´t require an internal object for that.
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
