# Kotlin Interview Questions- https://www.interviewbit.com/kotlin-interview-questions/#kotlin-data-types- https://www.onlineinterviewquestions.com/kotlin-interview-questions/- https://www.fullstack.cafe/blog/kotlin-interview-questions  - What is Kotlin ?  - Kotlin is a statically-typed language that runs on the Java Virtual Machine.     - It can seamlessly interoperate with Java and is considered an alternative to the standard Java compiler.- How it works internally ?  - A:  https://medium.com/til-kotlin/explanation-hey-kotlin-how-it-works-c98da63c59b0- What are extension functions in Kotlin?  - A: It’s a mechanism that allows extending a class without the need to inherit from the class or use Decorator or other design patterns.- What is null safety?  - A: This is a feature that prevents a null reference exception, the equivalent of Java’s NullPointerException in real time.- Is there a ternary operator like in Java ?    - No, there isn’t, but what a ternary operator does can be achieved through an if-else expression.- What’s the difference between val and var in Kotlin?    - A: Both are used for declaring a variable. However, while val is a final variable that is immutable and can be      initialized only once, var is a general variable that can be assigned multiple times.- What are the basic data types in Kotlin?    - A: Numbers, characters, Booleans, arrays, and strings.- How many constructors are there in Kotlin?    - A: A constructor’s main role is to initialize the properties of a class. In Kotlin, there can be a primary      constructor and one or more secondary constructors.- What are the extension methods that Kotlin provides to the Java.io file list?    - A:      bufferedReader():read contents of a file to BufferedReader readBytes() : read contents of a file to ByteArray      readText(): read contents of a file to a single String forEachLine() : read a file line by line in Kotlin      readLines(): read lines in a file to List- What are the structural expressions in Kotlin?A: There are three structural expressions:Return: helps to return from the closest function or an anonymous function. Break:  helps to terminate the closestenclosing loop. Continue: helps proceed to the next step of the closest enclosing loop.- What is the difference between const and val?    - A: Const is a keyword used to define compile-time constants, while val is used to define runtime constants.- Is it possible to migrate code from Java to Kotlin?    - A : Yes, it is. IntelliJ IDEA is a tool that can help you do that.- What are data classes in Kotlin?    - A data class is similar to a regular class with certain additional functionalities.    - For example, in order to store data items in Java, it’s necessary to create a class by setting the variables.    - In Kotlin, all it takes is adding keyword data to the class, and the compiler will automatically generate a      default getter and setter. So, basically, there’s no need to write or generate the extensive boilerplate code.- What modifiers are available in Kotlin?- Kotlin offers four visibility modifiers:  Private: visible inside this class and all its members only.   Protected: the same as private, but visible in subclasses too.   Internal: visible inside the same module   Public: by default, all the declarations are visible to everyone.- What is a string in Kotlin?    - A:  It’s a basic data type. Strings are immutable and Kotlin has two types of string literals:  Raw strings, which are delimited by a triple quote and can contain newlines, arbitrary text, and any other  character.     Escaped strings, which handle special characters by escaping them.- hat is the Init Block?    - A: It’s the initializer block and the code inside of it is executed when the primary constructor is instantiated.- Is new a keyword in Kotlin?    - A: No, it’s not and it doesn’t have to be used to instantiate a class.- Are there primitives in Kotlin?    - In a nutshell, there are no out-of-the-box primitives in Kotlin – they can’t be created at a code level. Given      that Kotlin has been designed to cooperate with Java and the JVM seamlessly, certain types like int or float can      act like primitives in certain cases.- Is there an equivalent for switch in Kotlin?    - A: Yes, there is. The When keyword is used instead.- What are deconstructing declarations?    - A: Kotlin comes with a functionality that allows developers to assign multiple values to variables. This kind of      syntax allows for creating multiple variables that can be used independently at once.      ## Advance Kotlin Interview Questions- How to create singleton in Kotlin?```object SomeSingleton```- The above Kotlin object will be compiled to the following equivalent Java code:```public final class SomeSingleton {   public static final SomeSingleton INSTANCE;   private SomeSingleton() {      INSTANCE = (SomeSingleton)this;      System.out.println("init complete");   }   static {      new SomeSingleton();   }}```- How to initialize an array in Kotlin with values?```val numbers: IntArray = intArrayOf(10, 20, 30, 40, 50)```- What is a data class in Kotlin?- We frequently create classes whose main purpose is to hold data. In Kotlin, this is called a data class and is marked as data:data class User(val name: String, val age: Int)To ensure consistency and meaningful behavior of the generated code, data classes have to fulfill the following requirements:    The primary constructor needs to have at least one parameter;    All primary constructor parameters need to be marked as val or var;    Data classes cannot be abstract, open, sealed or inner;- What is basic difference between fold and reduce in Kotlin? When to use which?  Junior  Top 68 Kotlin Interview Questions  Kotlin  68    Answer  fold takes an initial value, and the first invocation of the lambda you pass to it will receive that initial value and the first element of the collection as parameters.  listOf(1, 2, 3).fold(0) { sum, element -> sum + element }  The first call to the lambda will be with parameters 0 and 1.  Having the ability to pass in an initial value is useful if you have to provide some sort of default value or parameter for your operation.  reduce doesn't take an initial value, but instead starts with the first element of the collection as the accumulator (called sum in the following example)  listOf(1, 2, 3).reduce { sum, element -> sum + element }  The first call to the lambda here will be with parameters 1 and 2.- What is the difference between var and val in Kotlin?  Junior  Top 68 Kotlin Interview Questions  Kotlin  68    Answer  var is like general variable and it's known as a mutable variable in kotlin and can be assigned multiple times.  val is like Final variable and it's known as immutable in Kotlin and can be initialized only single time.+----------------+-----------------------------+---------------------------+|                |             val             |            var            |+----------------+-----------------------------+---------------------------+| Reference type | Immutable(once initialized  | Mutable(can able to change||                | can't be reassigned)        | value)                    |+----------------+-----------------------------+---------------------------+| Example        | val n = 20                  | var n = 20                |+----------------+-----------------------------+---------------------------+| In Java        | final int n = 20;           | int n = 20;               |+----------------+-----------------------------+---------------------------+- Where should I use var and where val?  Junior  Top 68 Kotlin Interview Questions  Kotlin  68    AnswerUse var where value is changing frequently. For example while getting location of android device:var integerVariable : Int? = nullUse val where there is no change in value in whole class. For example you want set textview or button's text programmatically.val stringVariables : String = "Button's Constant or final Text"- Explain advantages of when vs switch in Kotlin  Mid  Top 68 Kotlin Interview Questions  Kotlin  68    AnswerIn Java we use switch but in Kotlin, that switch gets converted to when. When has a better design. It is more concise and powerful than a traditional switch. when can be used either as an expression or as a statement.Some examples of when usage:    Two or more choiceswhen(number) {1 -> println("One")2, 3 -> println("Two or Three")4 -> println("Four")else -> println("Number is not between 1 and 4")}    "when" without argumentswhen {number < 1 -> print("Number is less than 1")number > 1 -> print("Number is greater than 1")}    Any type passed in "when"fun describe(obj: Any): String =when (obj) {1 -> "One""spm.kotlin.world.basic.Hello" -> "Greeting"is Long -> "Long"!is String -> "Not a string"else -> "Unknown"}    Smart castingwhen (x) {is Int -> print("X is integer")is String -> print("X is string")}    Rangeswhen(number) {1 -> println("One") //statement 12 -> println("Two") //statement 23 -> println("Three") //statement 3in 4..8 -> println("Number between 4 and 8") //statement 4!in 9..12 -> println("Number not in between 9 and 12") //statement 5else -> println("Number is not between 1 and 8") //statement 6}- Explain the Null safety in Kotlin  Mid  Top 68 Kotlin Interview Questions  Kotlin  68    AnswerKotlin's type system is aimed at eliminating the danger of null references from code, also known as the The Billion Dollar Mistake.One of the most common pitfalls in many programming languages, including Java, is that accessing a member of a null reference will result in a null reference exception. In Java this would be the equivalent of a NullPointerException or NPE for short.In Kotlin, the type system distinguishes between references that can hold null (nullable references) and those that can not (non-null references). For example, a regular variable of type String can not hold null:var a: String = "abc"a = null // compilation errorTo allow nulls, we can declare a variable as nullable string, written String?:var b: String? = "abc"b = null // okprint(b)- Explain what is wrong with that code?  Mid  Top 68 Kotlin Interview Questions  Kotlin  68    ProblemWhy is this code wrong?class Student (var name: String) {init() {println("Student has got a name as $name")}    constructor(sectionName: String, var id: Int) this(sectionName) {    }}AnswerThe property of the class can’t be declared inside the secondary constructor.. This will give an error because here we are declaring a property id of the class in the secondary constructor, which is not allowed.If you want to use some property inside the secondary constructor, then declare the property inside the class and use it in the secondary constructor:class Student (var name: String) {    var id: Int = -1    init() {        println("Student has got a name as $name")    }        constructor(secname: String, id: Int) this(secname) {        this.id = id    }}- How is it recommended to create constants in Kotlin?  Mid  Top 68 Kotlin Interview Questions  Kotlin  68    AnswerIn Kotlin, if you want to create the local constants which are supposed to be used with in the class then you can create it like below:val MY_CONSTANT_1 = "Constants1"// orconst val MY_CONSTANT_2 = "Constants2"Like val, variables defined with the const keyword are immutable. The difference here is that const is used for variables that are known at compile-time.Also avoid using companion objects. Behind the hood, getter and setter instance methods are created for the fields to be accessible. Calling instance methods is technically more expensive than calling static methods. Instead define the constants in object:object DbConstants {const val TABLE_USER_ATTRIBUTE_EMPID = "_id"const val TABLE_USER_ATTRIBUTE_DATA = "data"}- How would you refactor this code using apply?  Mid  Top 68 Kotlin Interview Questions  Kotlin  68    ProblemConsider:class Message(message: String, signature: String) {val body = MessageBody()init {body.text = message + "\n" + signature}}Do you see any refactoring that could be done?AnswerYou can write:class Message(message: String, signature: String) {val body = MessageBody().apply {text = message + "\n" + signature}}- May you use IntArray and an Array<Int> is in Kotlin interchangeably?  Mid  Top 68 Kotlin Interview Questions  Kotlin  68    AnswerArray<Int> is an Integer[] under the hood, while IntArray is an int[].This means that when you put an Int in an Array<Int>, it will always be boxed (specifically, with an Integer.valueOf() call). In the case of IntArray, no boxing will occur, because it translates to a Java primitive array.So no, we can't use them interchangeably.- Rewrite this code in Kotlin  Mid  Top 68 Kotlin Interview Questions  Kotlin  68    ProblemCan you rewrite this Java code in Kotlin?public class Singleton {private static Singleton instance = null;private Singleton(){}private synchronized static void createInstance() {if (instance == null) {instance = new Singleton();}}public static Singleton getInstance() {if (instance == null) createInstance();return instance;}AnswerUsing Kotlin:object SingletonWhat are the advantages of Kotlin over Java?MidTop 68 Kotlin Interview Questions  Kotlin  68  AnswerBasically for me less thinking required to write kotlin equivalent to most java code:data class    java: you have to write getters and setters for each thing, you have to write hashCode properly (or let IDE auto generate, which you have to do again every time you change the class), toString (same problem as hashcode) and equals (same problem as hashCode). or you could use lombok, but that comes with some quirky problems of its own. record types are hopefully on the way. *kotlin: data class does it all for you.getter and setter patterns    java: rewrite the getter and setter for each variable you use it for    kotlin: don't have to write getter and setter, and custom getter and setter take a lot less typing in kotlin if you do want to. also delegates exist for identical getters\settersabstract vs open classes    java: you have to make an abstract class implementation    kotlin: open class lets you make an inheritable class while also being usable itself. nice mix of interface and regular class imoextension functions    java: doesnt exist    kotlin: does exist, makes functions more clear in usage and feels more natural.null    java: Anything but primitives can be null at any time.    kotlin: you get to decide what can and cant be null. allows for nice things like inline classsingleton    java: Memorize singleton pattern    kotlin: object instead of classgenerics    java: Theyre alright, nothing fancy    kotlin: Reified generics (you can access the actual type), in and out for covariancenamed parameters    java: does not exist, easy to break api back-compatibility if you arent careful.    kotlin: does exist, easy to preserve api back-compatiblity.primary constructor    java: does not have per-se, you still have to define everything inside the class    kotlin: very nice to be able to quickly write a constructor without any constructor function or extra needless declarationsWhat is Lateinit in Kotlin and when would you use it?MidTop 68 Kotlin Interview Questions  Kotlin  68  Answerlateinit means late initialization. If you do not want to initialize a variable in the constructor instead you want to initialize it later on and if you can guarantee the initialization before using it, then declare that variable with lateinit keyword. It will not allocate memory until initialized. You cannot use lateinit for primitive type properties like Int, Long etc.lateinit var test: Stringfun doSomething() {test = "Some value"println("Length of string is "+test.length)test = "change value"}There are a handful of use cases where this is extremely helpful, for example:    Android: variables that get initialized in lifecycle methods;    Using Dagger for DI: injected class variables are initialized outside and independently from the constructor;    Setup for unit tests: test environment variables are initialized in a @Before - annotated method;    Spring Boot annotations (eg. @Autowired).What is a purpose of Companion Objects in Kotlin?MidTop 68 Kotlin Interview Questions  Kotlin  68  AnswerUnlike Java or C#, Kotlin doesn’t have static members or member functions. If you need to write a function that can be called without having a class instance but needs access to the internals of a class, you can write it as a member of a companion object declaration inside that class.class EventManager {    companion object FirebaseManager {    }  }val firebaseManager = EventManager.FirebaseManagerThe companion object is a singleton. The companion object is a proper object on its own, and can have its own supertypes - and you can assign it to a variable and pass it around. If you're integrating with Java code and need a true static member, you can annotate a member inside a companion object with @JvmStatic. - What is the Kotlin double-bang (!!) operator?  Mid  Top 68 Kotlin Interview Questions  Kotlin  68    AnswerThe not-null assertion operator !! converts any value to a non-null type and throws a KotlinNullPointerException exception if the value is null.Consider:fun main(args: Array<String>) {var email: String?email = nullprintln(email!!)}This operator should be used in cases where the developer is guaranteeing – it allows you to be 100% sure that its value is not null. - What is the difference between List and Array types?  Mid  Top 68 Kotlin Interview Questions  Kotlin  68    AnswerThe major difference from usage side is that Arrays have a fixed size while (Mutable)Listcan adjust their size dynamically. Moreover Array is mutable whereas List is not.Furthermore kotlin.collections.List is an interface implemented among others by java.util.ArrayList. It's also extended by kotlin.collections.MutableListto be used when a collections that allows for item modification is needed.On the jvm level Array is represented by arrays. List on the other hand is represented by java.util.List since there are no immutable collections equivalents available in Java.- What is the difference between const and val?  Mid  Top 68 Kotlin Interview Questions  Kotlin  68    Answerconsts are compile time constants. Meaning that their value has to be assigned during compile time, unlike vals, where it can be done at runtime.This means, that consts can never be assigned to a function or any class constructor, but only to a String or primitive.For example:const val foo = complexFunctionCall()   //Not okayval fooVal = complexFunctionCall()      //Okayconst val bar = "spm.kotlin.world.basic.Hello world"           //Also okay- What is the difference between open and public in Kotlin?  Mid  Top 68 Kotlin Interview Questions  Kotlin  68    Answer  The open keyword means “open for extension“. The open annotation on a class is the opposite of Java's final: it allows others to inherit from this class.  If you do not specify any visibility modifier, public is used by default, which means that your declarations will be visible everywhere. public is the default if nothing else is specified explicitly.  - What is the difference between suspending vs. blocking?  Mid  Top 68 Kotlin Interview Questions  Kotlin  68    Answer  A blocking call to a function means that a call to any other function, from the same thread, will halt the parent’s execution. Following up, this means that if you make a blocking call on the main thread’s execution, you effectively freeze the UI. Until that blocking calls finishes, the user will see a static screen, which is not a good thing.  Suspending doesn’t necessarily block your parent function’s execution. If you call a suspending function in some thread, you can easily push that function to a different thread. In case it is a heavy operation, it won’t block the main thread. If the suspending function has to suspend, it will simply pause its execution. This way you free up its thread for other work. Once it’s done suspending, it will get the next free thread from the pool, to finish its work.- What is the equivalent of Java static methods in Kotlin?  Mid  Top 68 Kotlin Interview Questions  Kotlin  68    AnswerPlace the function in the companion object.class Foo {public static int a() { return 1; }}will become:class Foo {companion object {fun a() : Int = 1}}// to runFoo.a();Another way is to solve most of the needs for static functions with package-level functions. They are simply declared outside a class in a source code file. The package of a file can be specified at the beginning of a file with the package keyword. Under the hood these "top-level" or "package" functions are actually compiled into their own class. In the above example, the compiler would create a class FooPackage with all of the top-level properties and functions, and route all of your references to them appropriately.Consider:package foofun bar() = {}usage:import foo.bar- What is the purpose of Unit-returning in functions? Why is VALUE there? What is this VALUE?  Mid  Top 68 Kotlin Interview Questions  Kotlin  68    ProblemExplain what is the purpose of Unit-returning in functions? Why is VALUE there? What is this VALUE?fun printHello(name : String?) : Unit {if (name != null)print("spm.kotlin.world.basic.Hello, $name!")elseprint("Hi there!")// We don't need to write 'return Unit.VALUE' or 'return', although we could}AnswerThe purpose is the same as C's or Java's void. Only Unit is a proper type, so it can be passed as a generic argument etc.    Why we don't call it "Void": because the word "void" means "nothing", and there's another type, Nothing, that means just "no value at all", i.e. the computation did not complete normally (looped forever or threw an exception). We could not afford the clash of meanings.    Why Unit has a value (i.e. is not the same as Nothing): because generic code can work smoothly then. If you pass Unit for a generic parameter T, the code written for any T will expect an object, and there must be an object, the sole value of Unit.    How to access that value of Unit: since it's a singleton object, just say Unit    UNIT actually contains valuable information, it basically just means "DONE". It just returns the information to the caller, that the method has been finished. - What will be result of the following code execution?  Mid  Top 68 Kotlin Interview Questions  Kotlin  68    ProblemWhat will be the output?val aVar by lazy {println("I am computing this value")"Hola"}fun main(args: Array<String>) {println(aVar)println(aVar)}AnswerFor lazy the first time you access the Lazy property, the initialisation (lazy() function invocation) takes place. The second time, this value is remembered and returned:I am computing this valueHolaHola- When to use lateinit over lazy initialization in Kotlin?  Mid  Top 68 Kotlin Interview Questions  Kotlin  68    AnswerThere are some simple rules to determined if you should use one or the other for properties initialisation:    If properties are mutable (i.e. might change at a later stage) use lateInit    If properties are set externally (e.g. need to pass in some external variable to set it), use lateinit. There’s still workaround to use lazy but not as direct.    If they are only meant to initialized once and shared by all, and it’s more internally set (dependent on variable internal to the class), then use lazy. Tactically, you could still use lateinit, but using lazy would better encapsulate your initialization code.Also compare:lateinit var	Can be initialized from anywhere the object seen from.	Multiple initialization possible.	Non-thread safe. It’s up to user to initialize correctly in a multi-threaded environment.	Can only be used for var.	Not eligible for nonnull properties.	An isInitialized method added to check whether the value has been initialized before.	Not allowed on properties of primitive types.	by lazyCan only be initialized from the initializer lambda.Only initialize single time.Thread-safety by default and guarntees that the initializer is invoked by once.Can only be used for val.Not eligible for nonnull properties.Property never able to un-initialized.Allowed on properties of primitive types.- When would you use Elvis operator in Kotlin?  Mid  Top 68 Kotlin Interview Questions  Kotlin  68    AnswerThe Elvis operator is part of many programming languages, e.g. Kotlin but also Groovy or C#. The Elvis operator is the ternary operator with its second operand omitted.x ?: y // yields `x` if `x` is not null, `y` otherwise.If x isn't null, then it will be returned. If it is null, then the y will be returned. - How to create empty constructor for data class in Kotlin?- How would you override default getter for Kotlin data class?- What are Object expressions in Kotlin and when to use them?- What is Coroutine Scope and how is that different from Coroutine Context?- What is inline class in Kotlin and when do we need one? Provide an example.- How Kotlin coroutines are better than RxKotlin/RxJava?- How to implement Builder pattern in Kotlin?-  Imagine you moving your code from Java to Kotlin. How would you rewrite this code in Kotlin?- What is the difference between * and Any in Kotlin generics?- What is the difference between launch/join and async/await in Kotlin coroutines?- 4) Tell three most important benefits of using Kotlin?Kotlin language is easy to learn as its syntax is similar to Java.Kotlin is a functional language and based on JVM. So, it removes lots of boiler plateIt is an expressive language which makes code readable and understandable.-     Why Kotlin?(Concise, Null Safety, Interoperable, SmartCast, etc…)  Val &var and const?  String interpolation?  init block?  What is an open keyword where it is used?  What is the extension function in kotlin?  What is infix functions?  What is the data class?  Sealed classes in kotlin?  What is the object keyword in kotlin?  Companion object in kotlin?  Higher-order functions?  function as an expression or conditional statements as an expression?  What are scoping functions like with and apply, let, also?  Null safety operators?  lateinit keyword?  Flat map and Map in kotlin?  Access Modifiers in kotlin?  What is Any?  What is reified?    